reading is very important and reading
and writing basically boils down to the
same thing I'm a great reader and
writing is even funnier than than
greeting so that's why I'm doing it
I'm not sure about the inspiration for
for writing in the in the crime genre I
know that when I when I started out my
second my first book was a was a
mainstream novel or a love story or
whatever but but then my first crime
novel could only be be written as a
crime novel it was a it's a man who
wakes up in the morning and he finds his
wife death in the in the bathtub and
that's a problem of course I said
everybody knows who has ever found his
wife in the bathtub dead but he another
problem is that he he can't remember
what happened last night because he
drank too much and and this is the story
that you can only tell as a crime story
and that's how I start I didn't intend
to be a crime writer but then I realized
that this is a it's a great shower
I think I'm at the most happy when when
when I finished the first draft of the
story when the story's there when I
written it through for whatever four or
five hundred pages and I know oh it's
there and then what you have to do is
that we writing but the rewriting is
funny because that's you can only make
it better so I think that the happiest
moment is when when the when the story's
there and you know you manage to to sort
of finish it for the first time
I do not have a right in between but I
wish I had one and I know what what were
writing routine I would have I would
like to get up early in the morning take
a dog for a walk have breakfast and then
work for five or six hours or as long as
I have anywhere it's still in my brain
but but he never works out that way I
mean I write periodically the problem is
that you have a chapter in your head and
you need to get rid of it somehow and
then you need to write and if there is
no chapter in your head you you there is
no need to write to start writing so and
also I do I start writing by hand which
is very old-fashioned but I'm an old man
so I'm allowed to do that
well I don't feel really comfortable
with being grouped together with any
party because I'm responsible for my own
writing you you write your own books and
you're not responsible for both but the
other writers writing in Swedish or
Danish or Norwegian or whatever but I
realized that it's it's a phenomenon
Nordic crime and so I suppose there is
something after all with with in the
Nordic scene the Nordic countries that
is sort of appealing to readers
a lot of authors not many crime author
sir I mean I'm more into reading
mainstream fiction but I won't mention
any names I mean because I read so much
the classic ones and and some new ones D
in the UK it's definitely Ian McEwan
then was one name that I sort of wanted
to too because I always I love his books
perhaps not the last one that wasn't a
really not great up to his standards but
the other was a very terribly good he
should have the Nobel Prize and see to
it when I come back to Stockholm